parameters:
  - name: CACHE_CAPACITY
    long_name: Cache capacity
    description: The capacity of a cache.
    type: integer
    constraints: {}
    excerpt: "The capacity and organization of a cache and the size of a cache block are both implementation-specific"
    trigger: "implementation-specific"
    defined_by: "CMO"
    isa_visible: Software can discover the cache capacity through the execution environment's cache discovery mechanism.
    confidence: high

  - name: CACHE_ORGANIZATION
    long_name: Cache organization
    description: The organization of a cache (e.g., associativity, set structure).
    type: string
    constraints: {}
    excerpt: "The capacity and organization of a cache and the size of a cache block are both implementation-specific"
    trigger: "implementation-specific"
    defined_by: "CMO"
    isa_visible: Software can discover the cache organization through the execution environment's cache discovery mechanism.
    confidence: medium

  - name: CACHE_BLOCK_SIZE
    long_name: Cache block size
    description: The size of a cache block, which must be a power-of-two (or NAPOT) naturally aligned range and uniform across the system.
    type: integer
    constraints:
      power_of_two: true
      note: "Must be uniform throughout the system per CMO extensions"
    excerpt: "the size of a cache block are both implementation-specific"
    trigger: "implementation-specific"
    defined_by: "CMO"
    isa_visible: Software can discover the cache block size through the execution environment's cache discovery mechanism; CMO instructions operate on cache blocks of this size.
    confidence: high

rejected:
  - candidate: Uniform cache block size across system
    reason: FIXED_BY_ARCHITECTURE
    excerpt: "In the initial set of CMO extensions, the size of a cache block shall be uniform throughout the system."
    explanation: The architecture requires uniformity ("shall be uniform"), so implementations cannot choose this; it is a constraint, not a parameter.

  - candidate: Cache block identification by physical address
    reason: NOT_ISA_VISIBLE
    excerpt: "A cache block is identified by any of the physical addresses corresponding to the underlying memory locations."
    explanation: This describes how cache blocks are identified, not an implementation choice; no software-observable variation exists.

  - candidate: NAPOT range property of cache blocks
    reason: FIXED_BY_ARCHITECTURE
    excerpt: "each of which represents a contiguous, naturally aligned power-of-two (or NAPOT) range of memory locations"
    explanation: The architecture mandates that cache blocks be NAPOT ranges; implementations cannot choose otherwise.